---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-23T20:45:08.404Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-23T20:44:59.395Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-23-ea5be7c6-14e4-4653-8fb3-06db5d2efd49.md
published: true
url: ea5be7c6-14e4-4653-8fb3-06db5d2efd49/index.html
_type: Article

---
I am privileged enough at certain times of the year to visit a special watery location in southern Mozambique. I have been doing this since 2009 and am convinced that every year my trips get better and better. Tiger sharks,_Galeocerdo cuvier,_are on the top of my list when it comes to animals I must reunite with. And I have been lucky enough to have met a few in my time underwater. Good waves, the ever-present zambezi and hammerhead sharks and spearing a decent fish for sashimi are also on the list. But somehow the tiger shark is the one that occupies my mind for months, even years, after each encounter.

__

_Tiger shark in the blue_

Typically a tricky shark to photograph -- these 'sluggish' sharks don't seem to put much effort into swimming by. The energy they display on their underwater approach is different from that of other shark species.

I believe that one can feel energy in photo's, and photo's of tiger's don't normally possess the energy we see in other shots. The tiger has a presence underwater, there is no doubt about that. But, like the unattainable prom queen, you need to play your cards right if you're to stand a chance of capturing a tiger just right.

Firstly, he needs to be close (or she -- she's are normally bigger). Tiger sharks are both bold, curious and shy. Yes, you read that right. Like your new SPCA adoptee, these guys want to say hi, don't want to say hi but feel they need to say hi -- all at the same time. Swim towards them and they're out of there. Swim away from them and you spark some curiosity. Look at them directly and they will tend to shy away. Face away from them and you're likely to elicit a shift in direction towards you.

Do not make any sudden movements whatever you do -- that's sure to cause unease, on the part of the shark. Bubbles from SCUBA gear will not help you either. If you can lie still and steady underwater on breathhold -- around 5/10m or so will do -- then you are onto something.

No bubbles, no sudden movement, no movement at all actually. Face the animal but do not swim towards it. Wait. Tell your body you don't need air, you have enough, more than you think. Calm down, slow your beating heart.

You could of course just swim directly at him as fast as possible, he'll most likely disappear as gracefully as he appeared. But then you wouldn't get to see one of the ocean's most majestic animals up close, showing you that he isn't actually going to bite just any old human on sight. Sure he makes mistakes from time to time but then again so does every living being. His species just pays for it with archaic shotgun rounds to the head, or being drowned in a nylon net, while our species receive second, third and fourth chances.

_Previously published Tiger shark selfie_